Hello welcome back again to this artist on does for business course we are in the first case study optimizing
warehouse flows with Q learning and we're about to finish the first part of our implementation part
1 defining the environment where we already defined the states the actions and now we're about to define
what we want.
So remember what we explained in the first section of this case study what do we have to do in the first
place is to define the reward function which is a function taking as inputs the couple of states in
action at a specific time and returning the reward we get by playing that action in the state.
And since we were dealing with Guler in here and also with finite number of states and a finite number
of actions which are the same numbers.
Well the best way to define this word function is to make a matrix where the rows correspond to the
states from 0 to 11 and the columns correspond to the actions from 0 to 11.
All right so let's make this matrix.
It's going to be of course the exact same matrix as the one we made together in the slide.
And as you can see speaking of the slides I included in our working directory folder the slide of the
warehouse here it is.
That's our warehouse with the 12 possible locations.
And that is just to help us make again manually this reward matrix.
We're going to do it again for the first three rows and then I'll just add by copy paste the whole reward
matrix.
All right.
But you can practice of course to build it yourself fully from scratch.
So let's start by initializing the number array which will contain all the cells of this matrix of rewards.
So let's go back to the code.
Here it is.
So first we have to give a name to this matrix of rewards and we're going to simply called R R will
be this matrix of rewards.
But remember that's exactly the same as in finding the word function.
So our.
And now we're going to introduce a 2D array and these two the array will be of course and number three.
And that's where we will mostly use none by with our number library we will build our matrix of reward.
And then later on our matrix of q values.
All right.
So let's do this first thing we have to do is call number.
Which has a shortcut and P and then to create and then by array with and by.
Well we are going to use the array function.
Bind them by and then inside the parenthesis we're going to add some square brackets.
A pair of square brackets.
And then inside this pair of square brackets we're going to add the different rows of this matrix every
word.
Again each row will be in a new pair of square brackets.
So for example here and adding a new pair of square brackets that corresponds to the first row.
And speaking of the first row.
Well let's populate it.
So let's take again our warehouse slide and remember how we have to do it.
The first row of our matrix of reward corresponds to the state of index 0 because in it the rows of
the matrix correspond to the state and the state of index zero corresponds to location A and therefore
what we have to see now since the columns correspond to the actions that we can play from location A.
Well the only action that we can play from location A is the action leading us to location B because
that's the only neighbor location of location A and therefore will only get a 1 for the action leading
to B and the rest of the actions will get a zero we want.
All right so that's exactly what we're going to populate now in this first row of our matrix.
Since location B has index 1.
Well we'll only put a 1 in the second column that is the column of the next one and that is why the
first row of our reward Matrix is the following 0 1.
That's where we can go.
And then zero.
And so now to be more efficient I'm going to use some copy paste because we just have to include nine
more zeros corresponding to the nine remaining locations.
So I'm just going to press base nine times now.
1 2 three four five six seven eight nine great perfect we have the first row of our matrix of rewards
are.
And now let's take care of the second row.
So to move onto the second row be we have to add a come here just to separate the rows in this matrix
or in this number by array and then you can press enter to populate in some new pair of square brackets.
This new row the second row you can see the structure here right.
This pair of square brackets here there is the outer square brackets corresponds to the first dimension
of this matrix.
The first mention of this array which are the rows and then the second pair of square brackets correspond
to the second dimension which are the columns.
All right.
Now let's play the second row.
Let's go back to our warehouse.
The second row corresponds to state B which is location B and from location B we can only go to location
a location C or location f and therefore we can only play the action leading us to a that is action
of index 0.
Or we can only play the action leading us to see which has index 2.
Or we can only play the action leading us to F which hasn't X5 right.
0 1 2 3 4 and 5.
And therefore in the second row of our matrix of words are we'll only get once in the columns of index
0 2 and 5.
All right so let's populate that.
We said the columns of index 0 is the first column then the column and the next to that is the third
column and the column of index 5.
Here it is.
And then all the rest is zero.
So I just have to do another six based on the come to zero that I kept in before.
So one two three four five six.
Here we go.
And perfect.
We have our second row.
And now just to finish one last row that we do manually the third row and then I'll just give you the
end of the matrix.
I will just copy paste.
All right let's do this let's go back to our slide.
So the third row of the matrix corresponds to location C and from location Z we can only go to location
the obligations g the action that will lead us to location B is the action of the next one and the action
that will lead us to location G is the action of index 6 because remember that had index 5.
So in the third row of our matrix A reward will only get once in the columns of the next one and six.
All right.
So let's do this let's go back to our Python code.
And again and adding some square brackets here corresponding to the third row of this matrix.
And here we go.
We said that in the third row of the matrix corresponding to the state of index 2 which corresponds
to Legations the world will only get to 1 in the column of the next one.
And then remember we said the column of index six perfect and all the rest gets zeros.
All right.
So these are the first rows of the matrix.
We won't do the same for the other rows because you get the idea.
But please practice and make the rest of the matrix yourself.
You have it of course in the e-book all the code is provided in the e-book with all the explanations.
But the more you practice the better.
So right now I'm just going to get the matrix from the ebook and just copy it you know copy the full
measure of reward.
And here it is.
All right perfect.
We have our Matrix Awards which means that we have our reward function which will be use in the Q learning
algorithm.
Congratulations not only for publishing this matrix of awards but also for completing part 1.
The funding the environment.
And then we're going to move on to part two which will be the interesting part actually because that's
where we're going to build the solution with Q learning the whole kit learning algorithm.
So I can't wait to implement this next code section with you.
And until then enjoy AI.